Arbitrary Precision Calculator (APCalc)
based on 
Calc - C-style arbitrary precision calculator
by Landon Curt Noll
http://isthe.com/chongo/tech/comp/calc/

The original Calc was modified by eliminating all of the file-based and terminal-based i/o routines. All communication with the resulting Calc library is accomplished by function calls. This library was developed (along with a very primitive user interface) in Bloodshed Dev-C++ version 4.9.9.2.

APCalc is implemented as a Qt-based user interface to the Calc library. This user interface approximates a blend of the features of the HP-42s and the HP-48, but without graphics or CAS functionality. The current interface was developed in Qt Creator 2.0.1 "based on Qt 4.7.0 (32 bit)".

APCalc menus are File, Mode, Solve, Equation (Algebraic mode only), Unit, and Constant (more below).

APCalc has three basic modes, RPN, Algebraic, and Solve.

APCalc RPN Mode:

In RPN mode, there are (top to bottom) a value stack display, a value entry box, and a 6-row by 7-column button grid.
 
The value stack display shows 8 entries, but the actual stored value stack is effectively unlimited. Only the most recent 8 are displayed. The value entry box dynamically displays decimal numbers with the customary thousands digit grouping (similar to the HP-42s). Thousands digit grouping for decimal numbers is also applied to the value stack display.

Clicking on a value in the value stack display loads that entry into the value entry box.

The value stack display may also show the values of 8 memory registers, A to H. The memory registers can be loaded by STO, optionally followed by +, -, *, or /, and clicking on one of the registers. If no optional +, -, *, or / is used, the register will be loaded with either the contents of the value entry box (if any) or the value held by the bottom value stack entry. If the optional +, -, *, or / is used, the same value will be added to, subtracted from, multiplied with, or divided into the selected register and the result will be stored in the register.

Similarly, RCL, optionally followed by +, -, *, or /, and clicking on a memory register, will either push the register content onto the value stack, or perform the corresponding operation on the bottom value stack entry.

To view the memory registers, click STO, and click STO again to return to the value stack view.

RPN mode buttons:
In RPN mode, the SHFT button shifts to another set of functions, but only for the next use of one of the shifted buttons, after which the button set returns to the unshifted button set.

With the exception of SHFT, STO, and RCL, in RPN mode, all of the buttons marked in bold text will affect the stack: by operating on one or more value stack values (e.g. sin, +, +/-, Swap), by pushing a value on the stack (e.g. Pi and e), by popping a value off the stack (e.g.Drop), or by reverting to a previous state of the stack (e.g. Last). The buttons marked in light text only affect the value entry box. Other buttons can enter text into the value entry box: Alt-2 enters '0b' (to commence binary value entry), Alt-6 enters '0x' (to commence hexadecimal value entry), and Alt-0 through Alt-5 enter 'A' through 'F' (for hexadecimal value entry). The keyboard Enter key is equivalent to the Ent button.

When a button that operates on the stack is clicked, and a value is present in the value entry box, that value will typically be pushed on the stack before the operation is executed. 

The value entry box supports the usual copy, cut, and paste operations, and supports the keyboard, except that only legal values may be entered. These are: binary ('0b'/'0B' followed by one or more of '0' and'1'), decimal ('-d', '-d.d', '-.d', '-dE-d', '-d.dE-d', '-.dE-d', '-di', '-d.di', '-.di', '-dE-di', '-d.dE-di', '-.dE-di', where d represents one or more decimal digits and the minus signs are optional), and hexadecimal ('0x'/'0X' followed by one or more of '0' through '9' and 'A' through 'F'). A leading zero always signifies a non-decimal base, either binary or hexadecimal, and must be followed by 'b'/'B' (binary) or 'x'/'X' (hexadecimal). Therefore, the first (non-fraction) decimal digit in a decimal value may not be '0', except when the integer part of the decimal value equals zero, for example, a zero decimal value or a leading zero followed by the decimal point.

Starting with an empty value entry box, if you attempt to enter the value of i by clicking the i button, '1i' will be entered. If you attempt to enter a bare exponent by clicking the E button, '1E' will be entered. More generally, the value entry box will attempt to prevent the entry of anything but legal values as defined above.

Unit Menu (unit conversions):
The unit conversions found on the unit menu push the selected conversion factor onto the Value Stack. For example, to convert 17 inches to centimeters, type '17', select Unit, Length, inches to centimeters from the Unit menu. Now click the multiply button which leaves the converted value on the bottom of the Value Stack.

Constant Menu (the values of various mathematical and physical conatants):
Works similarly to the Unit Menu.

APCalc Algebraic Mode:

In Algebraic mode, there are (top to bottom) an expression/program entry box and a 6-row by 6-column button set.

Albebraic mode buttons:
The button grid can be shifted through three different button sets. In Algebraic mode, the current button set is sticky and the bottom left button identifies the topic of the button set. 


APCalc Solve Mode:

Entering data values for the Solve variables follows the same rules as entering numerical values into the RPN mode value entry box as detailed above.

APCalc Menus:

File
	Open...
	Save As...
	----------
	Import History...
	Export History...
	----------
	Exit

Mode
	Algebraic - Forces APCalc into Algebraic mode.
	RPN - Forces APCalc into RPN mode.
	----------
	Degrees - Angle values displayed and interpreted as degrees.
	Radians - Angle values displayed and interpreted as radians.
	----------
	Decimal
	Scientific
	Decimal/Scientific
	Decimal/Hexadecimal
	Decimal/Binary
	----------
	Recall Eval
	Recall Eval and Value

Solve (forces APCalc into Solve Mode)
	Import
	----------
	Finance
		Time Value of Money
		----------
		Present Value		
	Geometry
		Side of Right Triangle
		Area of Circle
		Volume of Sphere

Equation (Algebraic mode only)
	Math
		Normal Probability
	Geometry
		Circumference of Circle
		Area of Circle
		Volume of Sphere

Unit (conversion factors)
	Length
		centimeters to inches
		meters to feet
		meters to yards	
		kilometers to miles	
		----------
		inches to centimeters	
		feet to meters	
		yards to meters	
		miles to kilometers	
		----------
		inches to feet	
		inches to yards	
		feet to miles	
		yards to miles	
		feet to inches	
		yards to inches	
		miles to feet	
		miles to yards	
	Area
		sq millimeters to sq inches	
		sq centimeters to sq inches	
		sq centimeters to sq feet	
		sq meters to sq feet	
		sq meters to sq yards	
		sq meters to acres	
		----------
		sq inches to sq millimeters	
		sq inches to sq centimeters	
		sq feet to sq centimeters	
		sq feet to sq meters	
		sq yards to sq meters	
		acres to sq meters	
		----------
		sq inches to sq feet	
		sq inches to sq yards	
		sq feet to acres	
		sq yards to acres	
		acres to sq yards	
		acres to sq feet	
		sq yards to sq inches	
		sq feet to sq inches	
	Volume
		cu centimeters to cu inches	
		liters to cu feet	
		cu meters to cu inches	
		cu meters to cu feet	
		cu meters to cu yards	
		----------
		cu inches to cu centimeters	
		cu inches to cu meters	
		cu feet to liters	
		cu feet to cu meters	
		cu yards to cu meters	
		----------
		cu inches to cu feet	
		cu inches to cu yards	
		cu feet to cu inches	
		cu yards to cu inches	
	Capacity
		liters to USquart	
		liters to USgallon	
		cu meters to USgallon	
		----------
		USquart to liters	
		USgallon to liters	
		USgallon to cu meters	
	Mass/Force
		kg to pound (av)	
		----------
		pound (av) to kg	
	Energy/Power
		watts to horsepower	
		----------
		horsepower to watts	
	Angle
		arcsec to degrees	
		arcmin to degrees	
		grads to degrees	
		----------
		degrees to arcsec	
		degrees to arcmin	
		degrees to grads	
	Time/Speed
		seconds to years	
		years to seconds	
		----------
		miles/hour to knots	
		miles/hour to meters/sec	
		meters/sec to miles/hour	
		knots to miles/hour	
	Temperature
		degrees C to degrees F	
		----------
		degrees F to degrees C	

Constant (values)
	Physics
		Speed of Light
		Gravitational Constant
		Acceleration of Gravity (m/s)
		Acceleration of Gravity (ft/s)
		----------
		Charge of Electron
		Mass of Electron
		Mass of Proton
		Mass of Neutron
		----------
		Avogadro Constant
		Planck Constant
	Geography
		Radius of Earth (equat, km)
		Radius of Earth (polar, km)
		----------
		Radius of Earth (equat, mi)
		Radius of Earth (polar, mi)
	Orders of Magnitude
		yotta
		zetta
		exa
		peta
		tera
		giga
		mega
		kilo
		hecto
		----------
		centi
		milli
		micro
		nano
		pico
		femto
		atto
		zepto
		yocto
	Data Magnitude
		kibi
		mebi
		gibi
		tebi
		pebi
		exbi
		zebi
		yobi
		
		
APCalc RPN functions (where x is stack value 1 and y is stck value 2) :
Button	Description
abs	Absolute value. Returns |x|.
acos	Arc cosine. Returns cos^-1 x.
acsh	Arc hyperbolic cosine. Returns cosh^-1 x.
Arg	Argument (the angle or phase) of a complex number
asin	Arc sine. Returns sin^-1 x.
asnh	Arc hyperbolic sine. Returns sinh^-1 x.
atan	Arc tangent. Returns tan^-1 x.
atnh	Arc hyperbolic tangent. Returns tanh^-1 x.
bAnd	Bitwise AND. Returns x Bitwise AND y.
bNot	Bitwise NOT. Returns 32 bit Bitwise NOT(x) equivalent to x XOR 0xFFFFFFFF.
bOr	Bitwise OR. Returns x Bitwise OR y.
bXor	Bitwise XOR (exclusive OR). Returns x Bitwise XOR y.
cAbs	The Absolute value of an imaginary number. Returns sqrt(re(x)^2 + im(x)^2).
comb	Combinations of y items taken x at a time = y! / [x!(y-x)!]
cos	Cosine. Returns cos(x).
cosh	Hyperbolic cosine. Returns cosh(x).
c»r	Complex to Real. Returns x = re(x), y = im(x).
Del	Delete the character preceeding the cursor.
Ent	Push value in value entry box onto stack.
e	Base of the natural logarithm.
e^x	Natural exponential. Returns e^x.
*E^X-1	Natural exponential for values of x which are close to zero. Returns e^x-1, which provides a much higher accuracy in the fractional part of the result.
fact	Factorial. Returns x!.
fp	Returns the fractional part of x.
*GAMMA	Gamma function. Returns G(x).
*GRAD	Select Grads angular mode.
*HMS+	Add x and y using H.MMSSss (hours-minutes-seconds) format.
*HMS-	Subtract x from y using H.MMSSss format.
im	Returns imaginary part of x as real number.
ip	Returns the integer part of x
Last	Recall previous stack and value entry box contents.
ln	Natural logarithm. Returns ln(x).
*LN1+X	Natural logarithm for values close to zero. Returns ln(1 + x), which provides a much higher accuracy in the fractional part of the result.
log	Common logarithm. Returns log10(x).
log2	Returns log base 2 of x.
logx	Returns log base x of y.
nrnd	Normally (Gaussian) distributed random numbers, using the Box-Muller transformation.
perm	Permutations of y items taken x at a time. Returns y!/(y - x)!
Pi	Put an approximation of pi into the x-register (3.14159265359.....).
*POLAR	Select polar coordinate mode for displaying complex numbers.
rand	Returns a random number (0 = x < 1)
RCL	Recall data from memory register into x. 
RCL+	Recall data from memory register and add it to the contents of x.
RCL-	Recall data from memory register and subtract it from the contents of x.
RCL×	Recall data from memory register and multiply it by the contents of x.
RCL/	Recall data from memory register and divide it into the contents of x.
re	Returns real part of x.
r»c	Real to Complex. Returns x + (y * i).
*RDX,	Select a comma to be used as the radix mark (decimal point).
*RDX.	Select a period to be used as the radix mark (decimal point).
*RECT	Select Rectangular coordinate mode for displaying complex numbers.
*RND	Round the number in the x-register using the current display format.
seed	Store a seed for the random number generator.
sign	Return 1 for x = 0, -1 for x < 0, and 0 for non-numbers. Returns the unit vector of a complex number.
sin	Returns sin(x).
sinh	Hyperbolic sine. Returns sinh(x).
ST0	Store a copy of x into a memory register.
STO+	Adds x to a memory register.
STO-	Subtracts x from a memory register.
ST0×	Multiplies a memory register by x. 
ST0/	Divides a memory register by x. 
tan	Returns tan(x).
tanh	Returns tanh(x).
Swap	Swaps the contents of the x- and y-registers.
x^2	Returns x^2.
x^-2	Returns square root of x.
y^x	Returns y^x.
y^-x	Returns y^-x.
y % x	Returns the remainder for y / x.
1/x	Returns 1/x.
10^x	Returns 10^x.
+	Returns y + x.
-	Returns y - x.
×	Returns x × y.
/	Returns y / x.
+/-	Change the sign of the number in the x-register. Alt-minus enters '-' for negative exponents.
»deg	To degrees. Convert an angle-value from radians to degrees. Returns x×(180/p).
*>>HMS	To hours, minutes, and seconds. Convert x from a decimal fraction to a minutes-seconds format.
*>>HR	To hours. Converts x from a minutes-seconds format to a decimal fraction.
*>>POL	To polar. Converts x and y to the corresponding polar coordinates r and ?. If the x-register contains a complex number, converts the two parts of the number to polar values.
»rad	To radians. Converts a angle value in degrees to radians. Returns x×(p/180).
*>>REC	To rectangular. Converts r (in the x-register) and ? (in the y-register) to the corresponding rectangular coordinates, x and y. If the X-register contains a complex number, converts the two parts of the number to rectangular values.
%	Percent. Returns (x × y) / 100. (Leaves the y value in the y-register.)
%ch	Percent change. Returns (x - y) × (100 / y).
%t	Percent of total. Returns 100 × y / x.